Sync GCP terraform module to reference architecture (#11996)
gitpod-io/gitpod: install/infra/single-cluster/gcp/README.md

* Create and configure GCS bucket for terraform backend
  * Create a [GCS bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage) to store the terraform backend state
  * Replace the name of the bucket in [`main.tf`](./main.tf) - currently it is set as `gitpod-tf`

## Update the `terraform.tfvars` file with appropriate values

The file [`terraform.tfvars`](./terraform.tfvars) with values that will be used
by terraform to create the cluster. While some of them are fairly
straightforward like the name of the cluster(`cluster_name`), others need a bit
more attention:

### Credentials and project configuration

To configure against a standing GCP account, we expect the the key corresponding
to the service account stored as a JSON file. The path to the JSON file is
expected to be provided as a value to the `credentials` field. Alongside, one is
expected to provide the name of the project(`project` field) corresponding to
this service account and region in with the cluster to be created(`region`
field). If you want your cluster to be zonal(only existing in one zone), you can
provide a zone corresponding to the project(`zone` field), else the cluster will

> be regional.

Author: Hey @adrienthebo, is the question to improve the currently included `terraform.tfvars`? https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/pull/11996/files#diff-6c046a5975ff4ff5c42776f6e5037cfe1f19cf750093b18ae731fb23290bce2e 

Or have another example tfvars file?

### External database, storage and registry

If you wish to create cloud specific database, storage and registry backend to be used
with `Gitpod`, leave the following 3 booleans set:

``` sh
enable_external_database                     = true
enable_external_storage                      = true
enable_external_registry                     = true
```

The corresponding resources will be created by the terraform script which
inclustes an `CloudSQL` mysql database, and access credentials to the GCS storage and GCR registry.

The expectation is that you can use the credentials to these setups(provided later
as terraform outputs) during the setup of Gitpod via UI later in the process.
Alternatively, one can choose to use incluster dependencies or separately
created resources of choice.

### Kubernetes version

Make sure you provide the corresponding kubernetes version as a value to the
variable `cluster_version`. We officially support kubernetes versions >= `1.20`.

### Domain name configuration

> If you are already sure of the domain name under which you want to setup Gitpod,
> we recommend highly to provide the value as `domain_name`. This will save a lot
> of hassle in setting up `Cloud DNS` records to point to the cluster and
> corresponding TLS certificate requests.

Reviewer: **Preference:** I'd suggest wording this around what people might already have and actions they might need to take if they don't have our Terraform modules do the heavy lifting. Here's a quick pass at how that might be worded:

```suggestion
If you do not yet have a DNS zone created for Gitpod or plan on using cert-manager
to generate TLS certificates for gitpod, we strongly recommend setting `domain_name`
to a domain for use with Gitpod. This will save a lot
of hassle in setting up `Cloud DNS` records to point to the cluster and
corresponding TLS certificate requests.
```

## Note the dependency credentials from terraform output

If you enabled the creation of external database, storage and registry, the
above `make output` command would list the credentials to connect to the
corresponding resource. Make a note of this, so as to provide the same when
setting up Gitpod via KOTS UI.

## Install Gitpod

You can install `KOTS` CLI to install Gitpod:

``` sh
curl https://kots.io/install | bash
```

Run the following to get started with Gitpod installation:

``` sh
export KUBECONFIG=kubeconfig
kubectl kots install gitpod/stable # you can replace `stable` with `unstable` or `beta` as per the requirement
```

Upon completion, you can access `KOTS` UI in `localhost:8800`. Here you can
proceed to configuring and intalling Gitpod. Please follow the [official
documentaion](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/self-hosted/latest/getting-started#step-4-install-gitpod) to complete the Gitpod setup.

## Troubleshooting

### Some pods never start (Init state)

```sh
kubectl get pods -l component=proxy
NAME                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
proxy-5998488f4c-t8vkh   0/1     Init 0/1  0          5m
```

> The most likely reason is that the DNS01 challenge has yet to resolve. To fix this, make sure you have added the NS records corresponding to the `cloudDNS` zone of the `domain_name` added to your domain provider.

Reviewer: **Opinion:** To me, "has yet to resolve" means that this issue should be able to resolve by itself. WDYT of the following?

```suggestion
The most likely reason is that the DNS01 challenge cannot be completed, typically because DNS zone delegation hasn't been set up from the parent domain to the subdomain that Gitpod is managing (specified by the `domain_name` variable). To fix this, make sure that NS records for `domain_name` in the parent zone are created and point to the nameservers of the Gitpod managed zone. See the [Google Cloud DNS documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dns/docs/dns-overview#delegated_subzone) for more information on zone delegation.
```

Once the DNS record has been updated, you will need to delete all Cert Manager pods to retrigger the certificate request

```
kubectl delete pods -n cert-manager --all
```

After a few minutes, you should see the https-certificate become ready.

```
kubectl get certificate
NAME                        READY   SECRET                      AGE
https-certificates          True    https-certificates          5m
```

### Cannot connect to the created cluster after a while

> There is a chance that your kubeconfig has gotten expired after a specific amount of time. You can reconnect to the cluster by using:

Reviewer: I typically encounter this when I'm reopening a Gitpod workspace; upon opening that workspace my `~/.kube/config` credentials are lost between workspace instances. Is this the scenario that we're looking to support? Are there other potential sources for lost kube credentials?

Author: So as long as one person has access to the service account creadentials and the name and region of the cluster, they can run the `gcloud container clusters` command mentioned here. I will append the command to activate the service account too before this. Would that address the issue you mentioned?
